The Alchemist

Chapter Two

The boy's name was Santiago. Before dawn, he awoke. He went to the opening of the tent and looked up. The sky was clear, and the stars shone with such intensity that it seemed as if they were about to fall upon him. He waited for a while, but sleep did not come. He had had the same dream that night as a week ago, and once again he had awakened before it ended.

He arose and, taking up his crook, began to awaken the sheep that still slept. He had noticed that, as soon as he awoke, most of his animals also began to stir. It was as if some mysterious energy bound his life to that of the sheep, with whom he had spent the past two years, leading them through the countryside in search of food and water.

The boy felt that it was his duty to help them, and that he was the only one in the world who could. If he did not do what they needed, they would all die, and he would be responsible. He had already learned to know and love each of them. Just as he knew the people of his city, the people who came to the marketplace, the beggars who were looking for a handout, and the merchants who wanted to cheat.

He knew the sheep almost intimately. Whenever he saw one of them that was ill or didn't want to eat, he knew what ailment the animal had and what to do about it. That was why he was more successful than the other shepherds. He had been made for the sheep, and the sheep were made for him.

The sheep didn't know how to be free, except in their constant search for food and water. Santiago thought about the merchant's daughter and about the way she had laughed at his lack of knowledge. He was sorry that he had not been able to ask her about the things that were more important to him than his reading. He was always happy to meet smart people, but unfortunately, he very rarely met them. Maybe, he thought, it's because I'm a shepherd.

The sheep awakened him in the middle of the night because one of them had fallen into a ditch. They had wandered into a deserted area, and the animal had been injured when it fell into the hole. They could have died if the boy hadn't had the presence of mind to keep them moving, even at night. He had, after all, not only the sheep to keep alive, but himself as well.

He had been delayed for a year in order to earn enough money to return to the seminary. The seminary was in a city, and he always felt happy when he saw the buildings of the city in the distance. The company of the sheep, though, made the horizon seem a bit less empty.

When he had been a boy, his parents had wanted to send him to the seminary. But he had wanted to become a shepherd. They had eventually allowed him to go to a school in a nearby town, but, as soon as he had learned to read and write, he had gone to the fields to be with the animals.

His parents had to sell a few of their animals in order to pay for his schooling. That's why he became a shepherd. He wanted to help them rebuild their flock. And he had already been able to do so.

He knew his way around the fields and the marketplace. He knew which were the best hours for grazing, and when it was necessary to water the sheep. He was the only shepherd who did not have to go to his knees before the merchant. He knew how to sell his wool,and knew the exact value of each animal.

He always made sure to arrive at the market early, and he used his earnings to buy more sheep. Within a few years, he had become the owner of an entire flock. He was a very good shepherd, but he wanted to be a shepherd who knew how to read. The old man had said that it was the language of the world. The boy knew a lot of people who wanted to learn the language of the world. He had spent much of his time with them at the abandoned church.

There, he had learned a lot about the crystal merchant, the seminary, and the other things that he had been thinking about during the past few months. It was there that he had had the dream for the first time. The dream had recurred for several nights, and since then, the boy had always awakened at the same time, without any need for an alarm clock. He had even asked his friend, the merchant, to interpret the dream for him. But the merchant laughed and said that he didn't have the time to spend on things like that.

The boy picked up his crook and began to lead the sheep out into the fields. He had already been to the top of the hill several times that morning. From where he sat, he could see Africa. It was only a dot on the horizon, but he knew that, in the old days, the Moors had been able to cross the desert.

He could see the plaza of the village, and he could imagine the multitudes on festival days. He remembered the day when he had seen a barber with a huge herd of sheep pass by. The barber was in charge of shearing the animals and collecting the wool. And he made more money than the shepherd, even though he had far fewer sheep.

They say that the shepherds always have money, Santiago thought. But that's not true. I have no money. I have five sheep, and I have to pay to get them sheared. If I had money, I would buy more sheep and be able to cut my own wool. As it is, I'm just a poor shepherd, like my father.

He was happy with his life, but he had the impression that he could be much happier. When he thought of this, something in his chest tightened. There was always the possibility of getting a better position in life, of becoming someone else. He had tried to explain this to his friend, but the merchant had only shaken his head.

"Everyone has his or her own way of learning things," he had said to the boy. "His way isn't the same as mine, nor mine as his. But we're both in search of our destinies, and I respect him for that."

The boy knew what he meant. He had seen many roads during his journeys, but he had never once thought of any of them as "the" road. Because there was always the possibility that he might change his way, or that, following a path that seemed to be leading nowhere, he might find a place he had never dreamed of, but one that he was glad to have found. If the sheep had taught him anything, it was that everything in life has its own reason for being.

His parents had been frightened when he told them he wanted to be a shepherd, but he had followed his own path, and he had never regretted it. He knew that he would feel strange and uncomfortable doing anything else. Still, he couldn't help but feel that he had left a great deal behind, that he had been immature in certain aspects of his life.

The thirty head of sheep would be enough to buy a new flock for his father. They would have to do some work for the merchant, but there would be no problem in that. His father had been able to afford to send him to school, and the boy hadn't wanted to learn how to read and write. His father had beaten him whenever he had tried to do so. But the boy wanted to learn, and, although he could continue tending his sheep and earning money to travel, he could read books written in a language he could understand.

The wind began to pick up. He knew that it was going to be a difficult night. They had been unable to find a place to spend the previous night. He had been forced to sleep with his jacket as a pillow and had spent the entire next day walking. But, as he walked along, the boy looked for the merchant's tent.

The owner of the bar had told him that the old crystal merchant was still there. The boy smiled to himself at the thought of working for a month to earn the money that the crystal merchant spent on a single glass lens.

The sheep entered the ruined church and continued on through to the plaza. The boy was happy to be in the company of his flock, even though they never talked very much. As he walked, he read the inscriptions on the stone. He liked the fact that the people who had lived there had believed in the same things as he did.

The boy knew a lot about Andalusia, but he was always learning more. At one time, he had been in the habit of collecting every possible detail about a particular region: its mountains, rivers, towns, and history. He had discovered that there was a language in the world that everyone understood, a language the boy had used throughout the time that he was trying to improve things at the shop. It was the language of enthusiasm, of things accomplished with love and purpose, and as part of a search for something believed in and desired.

Tangier was no longer a strange city, and he felt that, just as he had conquered this place, he could conquer the world. "When you know that language, it's easy to understand that someone in the world awaits you, whether it's in the middle of the desert or in some great city. And when two such people encounter each other, and their eyes meet, the past and the future become unimportant. There is only that moment, and the incredible certainty that everything under the sun has been written by one hand only. It is the hand that evokes love, and creates a twin soul for every person in the world. Without such love, one's dreams would have no meaning."

The boy was beginning to understand that intuition is really a sudden immersion of the soul into the universal current of life, where the histories of all people are connected, and we are able to know everything, because it's all written there.

He was surprised that he had never noticed that before. It didn't matter: it was more important that his dream had been realized. He had already seen the desert, and, in it, he had found the alchemist. He had thought of the different places in the world where he could live cheaply and with no need to work. He remembered the sword the alchemist had given him, and what he had told him about following the omens. The boy smiled at the thought of doing what the old crystal merchant had done, of traveling around the world, from one bazaar to another, in search of a higher price for his goods.

The sheep began to move on ahead, and he decided not to say anything to them about the merchant. They never listened to him anyway. As he walked along, he read the names of the shopkeepers. He liked the Moorish architecture, and he was pleased to see that so much of it had been preserved. He walked for hours through the narrow streets of the medina, and finally came to a small plaza, where a stone bench sat in the shade of a spreading tree. There were other benches in the plaza, but the boy sat on the one in the shade of the tree. He had noticed that his flock was more comfortable when they were lying down.

He looked around the plaza and saw people working in their shops. Children were playing around the tree, and two men were sitting on a bench, talking. The square was called the Plaza of the Sacrament, and it was where the caravan from Tarifa had unloaded.

The boy knew it was useless to talk to the men sitting on the bench. They were inquisitive, and no matter how friendly the stranger appeared, they would turn him over to the authorities.

He took out his book and, because he had nothing better to do, reread the part he had read a dozen times already. The merchant was curious about the book, and he asked the boy what it was.

"The title is The Alchemist," the boy said.

"What's it about?" the crystal merchant asked.

"It's about a shepherd who wants to fulfill his Personal Legend. It's a brilliant book," the boy said, and the crystal merchant made a mental note to order the book as soon as the boy left.

"I sell crystal, and crystal is expensive. You should have studied the dead languages."

The boy chose not to respond to the crystal merchant's comment. The subject always intrigued him, but he had never really talked to the merchant about it. He sensed that the old man had talked about it many times before, and that he was weary of it.

"Can I read what you're reading?" the crystal merchant asked.

"Sure," said the boy, happy to have someone to talk to. "But I don't think you'd be able to understand it."

"Why not?" the crystal merchant asked. "You know, I've been around the world many times. I've dealt with people from every conceivable corner of the world. I've read all the books I could get my hands on. But the two basic types of people are the people who believe in something and the people who don't. Believe me, I've been around and seen both types. They are the same everywhere."

"You're right," the boy said, smiling. "People are like that."

The sun was setting, and the boy felt an urge to be in his own room. They said good-bye, and the crystal merchant gave the boy a job sweeping the floor. It was a boring job, but he paid the boy in gold, and the boy could save the money to buy a ticket to Egypt.

The boy went to the ticket window to buy his ticket, thinking about the merchant's story. When he looked back to the plaza, he saw the two men who had been sitting on the bench coming toward him. He immediately felt for the pouch that held his book; it was still there. He had noticed that they had spoken Arabic, and he hoped that they weren't robbers. He had never been robbed before, and he knew that it was common in the countries he was about to visit.

But the men ignored him as they walked past, much to his relief. And the boy went back to reading his book, thinking of the old merchant. He was reminded of the saying that the old king had told him, and he felt that the old merchant had been only half right. The boy knew that, in a week or two, he would be at the pyramids. He had already imagined the scene many times. But, whenever he saw the image of the crystal merchant, there was a pang in his heart.

